###The road to mulshi dam(the western ghats)

Once you leave the main city (nigri,Pune) the road to *mulshi* runs in one uninterrupted stretch through the western ghats. The *mulshi* lake towards which we were headed is an artificial lake  created by the run off water from the *Mulshi* dam. We had little trouble reaching our destination when we decided to take directions from the locals instead of relying on google maps, much to the annoyance of my friend (Anirudh). He is a true believer of goolge maps and wanted to follow along the suggested path but he conceded after 45 mins of driving in cirlces which brought us, in a roundabout way, to the same road that the locals had advised us to take in the first place.

As I said the road runs through the western ghats and it makes for a very delightful scenery. To our left we had we had the hills some tall, some short, but all them very imposing. I remarked to my friend that these hills looked like helmets of some giant soldiers gurading the sacred lake, but that might have been the effect of lord of the ring's soundtrack in my ears .To our right we had a valley in which we could see the lake in the distance. We were looking for a good spot to get as close to it as we could. We found one near a solar power plant. So we decided to head in.

 Carefully navigating across the boulders we found ourselves at the edge. It spread far. The water was still but it looked quite fresh and blue. I remarked to Anirudh how serene it looked but he begged me to stop talking and let him be "in the moment".

Well he was in the moment all right. One second he was taking in deep breaths of the fresh air and in the other he jumped out of his clothes and into the lake. I considered this to be a bit reckless. I reminded him of the episodes of "River Monsters" where the Jermy Wade finds quite dangerous animals in calm unsuspecting waters. My,I thought quite genuine, concern was dismissed with a wave of hands and he proceed to give me a lecture on how we have lost touch with nature and how important it is for us to reconnect. 

His words spurred me into action and I myself jumped into the lake. Though unlike Anirudh I had no intention of covering myself in mud for a "natural bath". Infact I thought that he took the whole reconnecting with the nature thing a bit too far when he started drinking the water from the lake. I pointed out to him that it was quite possible that the same water could have been used by the locals to bathe their buffaloes. My deduction based on the very fresh cow dung I had accidently stepped into earlier. But he did't care. I did't press much either. We were in good spirits and after my "water only" and Anirudh's "water and mud" bath we were both feeling quite refresed. So we decided to move on to our next destination.

Nothing much of intrest occured untill our next destination but scattered througut the road we found warning signs forbidding the entry into the lake due to "reptiles, weeds, quicksand and powerful undercurrents". Needless to say that besides refreshed we felt quite adventrous an maybe even a bit gallant. But I suppose that could have been due to the lord of the rings soundtrack playing in our ears. 

### Towards kashid
We were headed to *kashid* beach. It was some 100 kms from the lake. The road among the mountains continued to be smooth and scenic. In between we stopped for *vada pao* and pineapple juice. Once we left the hills and moved though the vlillages the condition of the roads detriorated quite considerably. It was a bit difficult to drive but we wanted to be at the beach before the sunset so we kept on. And it got beter anyway, once we left the villages, and were back among the mountains again.

Along the way we found a couple selling watermelons so we stopped to get some. Talking to them we found out that these watermelons were quite special. "Not like those vapid things they sell in the cities". These were called "sugar babies" and were grown on the farm behind the stall. The couple said that people from far off places came to them to buy these sugar babies once they acquired a taste for them. They had also petted an abandoned ox who helped them keep the premises clean by gulping down the leftovers. They were quite good I must admit. The kashid beach was near know. 9 km's only. I could almost smell the sand.

### Kashid beach

We reached kashid at around 2 P.M. So we had plenty of time before it was sunset. Anirudh told me all about the mangroves and how they are used in fish farming on the way. Mangroves can grow in saline water. It has roots above the surface of the water so it can provide the fishes a good spot to lay their eggs. It is also said that mangroves help preventing coastal soil erosion and act as first barriers to tidal waves and tsunamis. We saw some of these mangrove trees up close. Quite fascinating they were.

Kashid beach was glorious. The spot we found had very few rocks. Only the soft sand, with a few quite sharp shells embedded in it, seperated us from the water. People on the beach, as I have had the opportunity to observe a couple of times before, can be divided into two groups:-

Group 1-- the people in these group are quite content in staying as far away from the water possible. On the beach they lay thier roots in a sunny spot. Once they do that it is impossible to mkae them move. You have some hope however if you manage to catch one while they are still tilling the soil, so to speak. Quite naturally these walking walnuts are reluctant to go in and have to be in some cases dragged and in other carried, against thier wishes, to even get the tip of their body wet. It is quite a sight to observe a member of this group from up close. They will scream, run, twist and turn in short to anything in their power to keep themselves dry. Once wet however these people loosen up and at least feign to enjoy water. A clear tell of a member of this tribe is that they have their clothes on even in the water.

Group -2: The people in this group live by the rule "He who must search for pearls must dive below". You can usually spot the group 2 brethern deep into the sea father than anyone else. They don't really care for the red flag that marks the boundary of the "safe zone". They go in deeper and deeper. In a sense they are the leaders of human race, reponsible for all of it's glory. Their courage inspires lesser men to walk the treachrous road. They are the "troublesome tribe" the lifeguards talk about on their lunch break.

For a while we studied these groups and then bored we went into the water. It was warm. The waves were not too strong. IT was soon time for sunset. Th arabian see being on the west coast on India gave us the opportunity to see the sun slowly slowly submerging into the distant horizon making it look as if it was being gulped by the sea.

It would soon be dark so we dcided that it would be best if we found a place to stay. I suggested that we should have something to eat first having had nothing expcept for "sugar babies" since the morning. My friend said he had to attend to natures call so it would be best if we found a room first.

My friend attended to several of nature's calls. In fact they talked quite loudly all through the night. I inquired if it was due to the "fresh lake water" that he drank in the morning to which he did not deem it necessary to reply. I further enquired if perhaps got too close to the nature. He make a few irrated remarks but I could see that his voice had lost much of the conviction it had in the morning. 

Next morning my friend looked flused out. I prescribed coconut water which, I was rather pleased to notice, had an instant restorative effect. We head back to our place. Going back everything seemed duller. The mangroves tress were not as interesting. The sugar babies were not so sweet. The scenery was not as pretty. And the music was not as uplifting. reach our place by 6 in the evening. I go to my bed instantaneously. 


### Aurangabad
A week after kashid beach we decided to go to the caves of Ajanta and Ellora. There was no direct route and we had to lay our tents in *Aurangabad*. The city of Aurangabad has history dating back to the 16th century. The initial years of the city were tumultous it was passed from one ruler to another.  It was founded by *Malik Amber*, succeded by his son and captured by the *Mughals*. Aurangzeb, the last great Mughal ruler, made it his capital and the city came to be known as Aurangabad after him. Later on it was ruled by the *Marthas*, and the *Nizam of Hyderabad*.

Aurangabad is home to various historical sites like the *Bibi ka Makbara*, a replica of taj mahal, built by aurangzeb in the momory of his first wife. There are also various *Darwazas* or gates , a few museums and the lonar lake (the lake formed by a meteorite some 50 thousand years ago).

I am writing all this down only to remind myself all that I missed. You see the day we reached Aurangabad it was raining. And it washed away all the plans we had made for weekend. Instead we just went to our rooms and slept, quite dispirited by the rain God's poor conduct.

It was still raining when we woke up next morning. Our options were limited now. We would have to carefully pant  out next move. We narrowed our options to the Ajanta and Ellora caves. But the two were quite far away from each other (70km) and it would not be possible for us to see them both. We finally decided to go to Ajanta. Mainly because it was older of the two and it was built during the "golden age" of Indian history, just after the Maurayan empire. During that period, thanks to the patronage of *Asoka*, Budhism was still quite popular in India and the caves of Ajanta are genreally regarded as the finest example of budhist religious art. So Ajanta it was then.

### Ajanta

The road to *Ajanta* village was once again quite scenic. The route was covered with green hills. We reached the our destination at 1 P.M. From there we took the government buses that took us to the site. The caves of Ajanta are built inside a semicircular cliff on the banks of , what seemed, to be a seasonal river. It was dry during this time of the year (March) but I am quite sure that during the monsoons it  flowed with abundance. From the entereance of the cave a large portion of the valley was visible. In the distance we could see a couple of waterfalls. All in all the setting of ajanta caves was quite picturesque.

There were 30 caves in total. Almost all of them had a large imposing statue of Buddha in the centere. The halls are open and on the either side there were rooms that were perhaps used by the budhist monks for living. These rooms were very small and devoid of any decoration.

The celings and walls of the caves were decorated with very colorful and detailed paintings. Though after 2000 years most of them were faded there was some effort of retoring them to their orignal glory. We heard the tour guides explaining that some of those paintings were about the *jatak kathayein* which I had the opportunity to read during my childhood. Quite exciting though I could hardly make out anything from what I saw.

The caves were not build in one concetrated effort but were rather built little by little in the course of about 500 years. Consequently the artists of different period contributed these caves. The political and religious atmosphere of the country also had an effect on the caves. There was a breif period of time when budhism lost it's popularity in the country and the work on the caves stopped only to be later resumed under the patronage of some other ruling power.